# MAG-to-Assembly Matching Pipeline

This repository contains an in-progress Nextflow pipeline designed to match Metagenome-Assembled Genome (MAG) accessions to their corresponding primary metagenome assemblies. The pipeline uses metadata links retrieved through the ENA API and verifies matches by comparing contig checksums between MAGs and assemblies.

The pipeline consists of three consecutive processes:

1. **Creation of Input for the Main Script**

   Download lists of accessions from MGnify catalogs and ENA, merge them, remove redundancy, and exclude accessions that have been processed in previous runs of the pipeline. This step is skipped if runnning on user-provided input accessions.

2. **MAG-to-Assembly Linking**

   This process utilizes the ENA API to retrieve metadata related to the provided MAG accessions and download FASTA files for both MAGs and assemblies. These files are necessary to compute checksum values of the contigs.

3. **Postprocessing**

   Merge results into a single table, add `Species_rep` and `Action` columns, and create updated [`processed_accessions_*.tsv`](`data/tests/processed_accessions.tsv`) and [`mag_to_assembly_links_*.tsv`](data/tests/mag_to_assembly_links.tsv) files.

## Requirements

- Singularity
- Nextflow

## Input Arguments
 ### Universal
- `--output_path`: Where to save output files. Default is `$PWD/results`
- `--batch_size`:  Size of batches into which the list of input accessions is divided for parallel processing. Default is `250`

 ### Recurring running on ENA/MGnify
- `--previous_table`: Earlier `mag_to_assembly_links_*.tsv` file generated by the pipeline in a previous run. An example is [`data/tests/mag_to_assembly_links.tsv`](data/tests/mag_to_assembly_links.tsv)
- `--processed_acc`: List of the accessions `processed_accessions_*.tsv` that have been processed in previous runs of the pipeline. An example is [`data/tests/processed_accessions.tsv`](`data/tests/processed_accessions.tsv`)

__If these arguments are not specified, the pipeline will run inference of MAG-to-assembly links for all MAGs and bins deposited in the ENA and MGnify catalogues.__

### User-provided input 

- `--external_input`: Custom list of accessions (one per line) to process instead of ones that are downloaded from ENA/MGnify
- `--external_metadata`: Optional. Metadata table connecting input accession with their MGYG accessions and species representatives to include this information in the final table
- `--previous_table`: Optional. Earlier `mag_to_assembly_links_*.tsv` file to . An example is [`data/tests/mag_to_assembly_links.tsv`](data/tests/mag_to_assembly_links.tsv)
- `--processed_acc`: Optional. List of the accessions `processed_accessions_*.tsv` that have been processed in previous runs of the pipeline. An example is [`data/tests/processed_accessions.tsv`](`data/tests/processed_accessions.tsv`)

## Usage

### Locally with Docker on test dataset

```bash
nextflow run main.nf \
-profile local \
--external_input data/tests/input_accessions.tsv \
--processed_acc data/tests/processed_accessions.tsv \
--previous_table data/tests/mag_to_assembly_links.tsv
```

### Slurm with Singularity

You can run the pipeline on SLURM with the following command:

```bash
nextflow run main.nf \
-profile codon_slurm main.nf \
--previous_table /path/to/file.tsv \
--processed_acc /path/to/file.tsv
```

To launch a run on a test dataset `data/tests/`, use:

```bash
nextflow run main.nf \
-profile codon_slurm \
--external_input data/tests/input_accessions.tsv \
--processed_acc data/tests/processed_accessions.tsv \
--previous_table data/tests/mag_to_assembly_links.tsv
```

